Video capture notes.

To ensure accurate capture with this software in Linux, you may
wish to read this. Some drivers have issues, some cards have problems.

- The Linux saa7134 driver (Lifeview/Mercury PCI capture cards)

  - The driver appears to have some off-by-one errors with respect
    to NTSC capture.

    If you look at the code, it seems to define a default crop
    rectangle that goes one scanline beyond the end of the active
    picture area.

    It also defines a boundary crop rectangle (the limits of the
    hardware) that is 2 frame scanlines up from default.

    Both define a crop width+height of 720x480.

    However, if you read, and then apply the default crop rectangle,
    the driver will then return a crop rectangle of 720x478. It is
    only when asked to read and reapply the crop rectangle that the
    driver then correctly crops it within the limits of NTSC.

    Default crop rectangle: 0x46 720x480
    Bounds crop rectangle: 0x44 720x480
    Crop rectangle if default read, then applied to driver: 0x46 720x478

    If a program is not prepared for the issue, and attempts to capture
    720x480, it will instead get 720x478 with the last two scanlines
    uninitialized, and a fuzzy picture caused by the mismatch in
    dimensions triggering the card to scale and interpolate the video.

    The other issue this causes is that, if you are capturing video
    to preserve both VBI and active picture area, this off by one
    mistake means that your capture will miss line 22. The VBI capture
    will contain lines 10-21 and the active picture area will contain
    lines 23-261, but line 22 will be skipped over. Setting the crop
    rectangle to the bounds rectangle can reenable capture of line 22
    and full capture of the video.

    If you have one of these cards and the saa7134 driver, it is
    strongly recommended that you compensate for this issue by
    checking the 'Use boundary crop rectangle' option in the UI's
    input settings or by using the -cropbounds option at the command
    line.

    In extreme cases, this issue eventually causes video capture to
    stop entirely (especially if VBI is involved). Video capture will
    not work unless you unload and reload the saa7134 driver, or in
    some extreme cases, restart the system.

  - The video capture card is not very tolerant of unstable or bad
    video sources. For example, if you wish to capture and digitize
    a VHS source and the VHS tape came from a VCR with any sort of
    tracking error or the video source has interference or noise,
    this capture card will not handle it very well. You will get
    frame drops. Use a different capture card instead.

    However if the VHS source is clean and stable, it will work fine.

  - This video capture card also has a strange issue with video sources
    coming from Laserdisc. It will not drop frames, however it has
    trouble locking onto the color subcarrier for some reason. This
    issue shows itself as the color going in and out periodically.
    The video will alternate between normal display, and display without
    decoding the color (you will see the color subcarrier in the
    black and white image).

  - The video capture driver has a bug where, if you open and setup
    video capture, then open the vbi device, the opening of the vbi
    device resets the crop rectangle you set on the video device.
    This is a problem, especially if you are trying to compensate
    for the crop rectangle bug already mentioned above.

    video and vbi open call a "video mux init" which re-applies the
    input and tv standard settings and therefore resets the crop
    rectangle.

    This is not specific to one process. If another process opens
    either the video or vbi device, then the crop rectangle is
    reset.

- Happauge ImpactVCB-e

 - Nice capture card. The driver offers both video and VBI capture,
   but for some reason the cx23885 driver with this card is unable
   to initiate VBI capture. You can open capture and try to read,
   but no data will come back. Video capture works fine though.

